Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Cats have supersonic hearing
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Female felines are \superfecund
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
